
European Chidon Tanach – 5786 / January 2026

Dear contestant,
Before you are 40 questions divided into four types: True/False, Multiple Choice, Open Questions, and Picture Questions.
Good luck,
The Examination Team

True / False

On the second day, dry land was created. (False)
The two cities that the Israelites built for Pharaoh were Pithom and Raamses. (True)
The object of the Mishkan that the priests carried when crossing the Jordan into the land of Canaan was the altar. (False)
The prophet Shmuel was a judge. (True)
David hid from Shaul among the Philistines. (True)

Multiple Choice Questions

What was the source of the waters in the Flood? (D)
Tsunami
Rain
Underground waters
Rain and underground waters

Which of the following is NOT correct regarding the city of Sodom? (C)
It was located in the Jordan plain
Avraham negotiated with G-d so that the city might be saved
The king of the city brought out bread and wine and blessed Avraham as thanks
The morals of its people were evil

Which of the following dreams did Yosef dream? (B)
The ladder
The bundles of grain in the field
The grapes being squeezed into the cup
The fat and skinny cows

Which of the following sons did Yaakov critisize in his blessing? (A)
Reuven
Yissakhar
Dan
Binyamin

In which of the following stories was NO shoe removed? (C)
Moshe and the burning bush
Yehoshua and the captain of the Lord’s host
Yehuda and Tamar
Boaz and Ruth

How is the people of Israel described before the giving of the Torah and the Ten Commandments? (B)
As a people rising like a lion
A kingdom of priests and a holy nation
A numerous and mighty people
A stiff-necked people

What was the taste of the manna? (D)
Bread and meat
The seven species
Cucumbers and watermelons
Wafers with honey

After entering the land in the days of Yehoshua, several events took place. Which of the following did NOT happen immediately, but only after the battles began? (A)
The ceremony of the blessing and the curse
The people underwent circumcision
The people celebrated Passover
The placing of the twelve memorial stones from the Jordan

Which of the following were kings of the Emorites? (C)
The kings of Chatzor and Shimron
The kings of Yericho and Ai
The kings of Yerushalayim and Chevron
The kings of the Philistines

What is correct regarding the strategy of Ehud ben Gera? (D)
He used a double-edged sword
He used his left hand for the stabbing
He caused the king of Moav to remain alone with him
All of the above

In the parable of Yotam, to which tree do the trees turn to ask it to reign over them? (A)
Vine
Pomegranate
Date palm
Cedar

The people asked Shmuel for a king and gave various reasons. Which of the following reasons did they mention? (C)
That the people lost the war against the Philistines
That Eli the priest died
That the sons of Shmuel were not worthy
That Shaul was very fit for kingship

Which of the following is NOT a description of David’s qualities? (B)
Skillful musician
Wise-hearted
Mighty warrior
Hashem is with him

What was Yonah’s prophecy to the city of Nineveh? (C)
The people of the city will be exiled if they don’t repent
The people of the city are very evil before G-d
In forty days the city will be overturned
The city will be conquered by Assyria if there is no repentance

Who said to whom: “Your people shall be my people, and your G-d my G-d”? (B)
Hagar to Sarah
Ruth to Naomi
Yael to Devorah
Shifrah to Miriam

Open Questions

What was Kayin’s profession? (Farmer / worker of the soil)
Who was the first child Avraham circumcised? (Yishmael)
What job did Yosef tell his brothers to say they did when speaking to Pharaoh? (Shepherds)
What was the plague that happened directly before the plague of the firstborn? (Darkness)
To whom was it said: “Be strong and courageous”? (Yehoshua)
What was the name of the people who deceived Yehoshua? (The Giv'onites)
Who said” “Let my soul die with the Philistines”? (Shimshon)
Who said to whom “Am I a dog that you come to me with sticks”? (Golyat to David)
Who said to whom: “You shall be king over Israel and I shall be second to you”? (Yonatan to David)
Why did Naomi and Elimelech leave Bethlehem? (Because of the famine)

Picture Questions

Image caption (chidon31-32.png): Avraham arrives in the Land of Israel following the command “Lech Lecha.”
Who began the journey from Ur Kasdim toward the land of Canaan? (Terach / Avraham’s father)
Who were the people, mentioned by name, who joined Avraham on the journey? (Sarah and Lot)

Image caption (chidon33-34.png):vThe Philistines quarreled with Yitzhak over the wells of water.
Whose wells did the Philistines block at first? (Avraham)
Following Yitzhak’s success, someone asked to make a covenant with him. Who was it? (Avimelech / king of the Philistines)

Image caption (chidon35-36.png): Before Yaakov crossed the stream to meet Esav, he wrestled with a man.
What name did Yaakov receive from the man as a result of the struggle? (Yisrael)
What name did Yaakov give to the place where he wrestled with the man? (Peniel)

Image caption (chidon37-38.png): Amalek attacking the rear of the people of Israel in the desert. The question: Amalek was the first nation to attack the people of Israel in the wilderness after the miracle of the splitting of the Red Sea.
In the battle with Amalek in the desert, Moshe prayed for the success of the people. Who actually led the fighting against Amalek? (Yehoshua)
Shaul was commanded by Shmuel to destroy Amalek, but he did not complete the task. What was the name of the king of Amalek whom Shaul left alive? (Agag)

Image caption (chidon39-40.png): Moshe did not merit entering the Land of Israel but only looking upon it from Mount Nevo. Before his death, he prepared the people of Israel for entering the land.
Moshe commanded the people of Israel to gather in the Sabbatical year on the festival of Sukkot. What must the people do at this event? (Read the Torah)
Aharon, Moshe’s brother, also did not merit entering the land. Where was he buried? (Hor HaHar / Mount Hor)

Image caption (chidon41-42.png): When the time came for dividing the inheritances, Kalev ben Yefuneh demanded from Yehoshua the fulfillment of the promise that Moshe had given to Kalev.
Which city did Kalev claim as his inheritance? (Chevron)
At the beginning of the period of the Judges, Kalev promised his daughter Achsah to whoever would conquer Kiryat Sefer. Who succeeded in conquering the city? (Otniel ben Kenaz)

Image caption (chidon43-44.png): Two women were involved in different roles in the war against Yavin, king of Canaan and Sisera, his general.
What were the names of the two women? (Devorah and Yael)
What did one of them give Sisera to drink to make him fall asleep? (Milk)

Image caption (chidon45-46.png): Before the battle with the Philistines, there was a severe shortage of weapons, mainly because there were no craftsmen.
Who were the two people in the Israelite camp who were the only ones with weapons? (Shaul and Yonatan)
What did Shaul forbid the people to eat until the end of the battle with the Philistines? (Bread)

Image caption (chidon47-48.png): Shaul’s kingship ends with the fierce battle on Mount Gilboa in which Shaul and his sons were killed.
Before the battle, Shaul went to the medium at Ein Dor. With whom did he want to communicate through her? (Shmuel)
What are the names of Shaul’s three sons who died on Mount Gilboa? (Yonatan, Avinadav, Malkishua)

Image caption (chidon49-50.png): Esther invited Achashverosh and Haman to a banquet in order to tell Achashverosh about Haman’s plot.
On the night before the second banquet, King Achashverosh wished to reward Mordechai. What was the reason for this reward? (Mordechai saved King Achashverosh from an assassination plot / Bigtan and Teresh / the king’s guards)
Who said to whom: “Will you even assault the queen with me in the house?!” (Achashverosh to Haman)

